Hormonal contraceptives are steroid hormones used for birth control.
They contain a small amount of synthetic estrogen, progestin,
or different combinations of these hormones
that inhibit the body's natural fertility cycle
and help prevent pregnancy.
Normally a pregnancy can occur when the hormones
LH and FSH signal a woman's ovary to release an egg
allowing a sperm to attach and fertilize it.
Hormonal birth control works by preventing
the growth of an egg and ovulation.
By preventing the release of LH and FSH
by the pituitary gland.
Contraceptives thicken cervical mucus
so that sperm have a more difficult time reaching the egg.
They also make it more difficult for the egg
to attach to the lining of the uterus.
A number of different types of hormonal contraceptives exist,
including pills, patches and vaginal rings.